update naming to query performance factor (#603)
redis/docs: content/operate/oss_and_stack/stack-with-enterprise/search/query-performance-factor.md

---

> Title: Enable Query Performance Factor For Redis Query Engine in Redis Enterprise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: Configure the query performance factor for Redis Query Engine in Redis Enterprise
```

alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- stack

> description: Enable the Query performance factor for Redis Query Engine in Redis Enterprise to increase the performance of queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Configure the query performance factor for Redis Query Engine in Redis Enterprise to increase the performance of queries.
```

> linkTitle: Enable scalable Redis Query Engine

Reviewer: Did you want the link title that appears in the ToC/navigation to change too?
```suggestion
linkTitle: Configure query performance factor
```

weight: 20

> aliases: /operate/oss_and_stack/stack-with-enterprise/search/query-performance-factor/

Reviewer: We need to keep the old alias to avoid possible broken links from external sources.
```suggestion
aliases: /operate/oss_and_stack/stack-with-enterprise/search/scalable-search/
         /operate/oss_and_stack/stack-with-enterprise/search/query-performance-factor/
```

---

> Query performance factor is a capability intended to increase the performance of queries, including [vector search]({{<relref "/develop/interact/search-and-query/query/vector-search">}}). When enabled, it allows you to increase a database's compute capacity and throughput by allocating more virtual CPUs per shard in addition to horizontal scaling with more shards. This document describes how to configure the Query performance factor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query performance factors are intended to increase the performance of queries, including [vector search]({{<relref "/develop/interact/search-and-query/query/vector-search">}}). When enabled, it allows you to increase a database's compute capacity and throughput by allocating more virtual CPUs per shard in addition to horizontal scaling with more shards. This document describes how to configure the query performance factor.
```

    1. Calculate the RAM requirements using the [Index Size Calculator](https://redis.io/redisearch-sizing-calculator/). The total RAM required is the sum of the dataset and index sizes.

> 1. [Determine the Query performanc factor](#calculate-performance-factor) you want and the required number of CPUs. Unused CPUs, above the 20% necessary for Redis, can be used for the scalable Redis Query Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Determine the query performance factor](#calculate-performance-factor) you want and the required number of CPUs. Unused CPUs, above the 20% necessary for Redis, can be used for the scalable Redis Query Engine.
```

1. Create a new Redis database with the number of CPUs configured for the Query performance factor.

## Calculate performance factor

> ### CPUs for Query performance factor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CPUs for query performance factor
```

| Scale factor | 4x |
| Minimum CPUs required for scale factor | 6 |

> ## Enable Query performance factor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure query performance factor
```

> To enable the performance factor in Redis Enterprise, use the [REST API]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api">}}) to create a new database or update an existing database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the query performance factor in Redis Enterprise, use the [REST API]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api">}}) to create a new database or update an existing database.
```

### Create new database

> To create a database with the Query performance factor enabled, use the [create database REST API endpoint]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs#post-bdbs-v1">}}) with a [BDB object]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/objects/bdb">}}) that includes the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a database and configure the query performance factor, use the [create database REST API endpoint]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs#post-bdbs-v1">}}) with a [BDB object]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/objects/bdb">}}) that includes the following parameters:
```

}
```

See [Calculate performance factor](#calculate-performance-factor) to determine the value to use for `<NUMBER_OF_CPUS>`.

#### Example REST API request for a new database

> The following JSON is an example request body used to create a new database with a 4x Query performance factor enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following JSON is an example request body used to create a new database with a 4x query performance factor configured:
```

### Update existing database 

> To enable the Query performance factor for an existing database, use the following REST API requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the query performance factor for an existing database, use the following REST API requests:
```

- [Update database configuration]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs#put-bdbs">}}) to modify the DMC proxy.

> - [Upgrade module]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/modules/upgrade#post-bdb-modules-upgrade">}}) to set the search module’s Query performance factor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Upgrade module]({{<relref "/operate/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/modules/upgrade#post-bdb-modules-upgrade">}}) to set the search module’s query performance factor.
```

{{<note>}}
- Because this procedure also restarts the database shards, you should perform it during a maintenance period.
- This procedure overwrites any existing module configuration parameters.
{{</note>}}

> The following example script uses both endpoints to configure a 4x Query performance factor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example script uses both endpoints to configure a 4x query performance factor:
```

## Monitoring Redis Query Engine

> To monitor a database with a Query performance factor enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor a database with a query performance factor configured:
```

1. Integrate your Redis Enterprise deployment with Prometheus. See [Prometheus and Grafana with Redis Enterprise]({{<relref "/integrate/prometheus-with-redis-enterprise">}}) for instructions.

1. Monitor the `redis_process_cpu_usage_percent` shard metric.

    The following Prometheus UI screenshot shows `redis_process_cpu_usage_percent` spikes for a database with two shards:

    - 1st 100% spike: [`memtier_benchmark`](https://github.com/RedisLabs/memtier_benchmark) search test at the default (no additional CPUs for search).

>     - 2nd 100% spike: reconfiguration and shard restart for a 4x Query performance factor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 2nd 100% spike: reconfiguration and shard restart for a 4x query performance factor.
```

>     - 3rd 600% spike: `memtier_benchmark` search test with threading at a 4x Query performance factor (6 CPUs per shard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 3rd 600% spike: `memtier_benchmark` search test with threading at a 4x query performance factor (6 CPUs per shard).
```
